                       CONQUER COMMAND HELP SCREEN

     SELECTIVE                 MOVEMENT                   CIVIL
'o': pick previous unit    'h': move west          'r': redesignate
'p': pick next unit        'y': move north-west    't': transport via ship
'G': go to next army       'k': move north         'C': construct
'F': go to next fleet      'u': move north-east    'D': draft armies
'm': move selected unit    'l': move east          'Z': move civilians
                           'n': move south-east
       FORMS               'j': move south             COMMUNICATIVE
'c': administrative        'b': move south-west    'R': read mail messages
's': world score list      'J': scroll south       'N': read newspaper
'B': budget status         'K': scroll north       'T': trade with players
'I': campaign info         'L': scroll east        'W': write mail messages
'M': magic screen          'H': scroll west
'P': production status                                   MILITARY
'S': diplomacy status        MISC COMMANDS         'a': army report
                           'q': quit and save      'f': fleet report
      VISUAL               'v': version credits    'g': group army report
'd': change display        'Q': quit and save      'w': wizardry commands
'cntrl-L': redraw          '?': help screens     'ESC': extra commands
END
                      CONQUER EXTENDED COMMANDS

   All of the extended commands are accessed by typing the ESC key and
then one of the following extended command keys.

   Each of the commands takes action on the currently selected army unit.

                  'a': set army status to ATTACK
                  'd': set army status to DEFEND
                  's': set army status to SCOUT
                  'm': set army status to MARCH
                  'g': set army status to GARRISON
                  'G': place army in a group with other armies
                  'S': set army status to SEIGE or SORTIE
                  'R': set army leader status to RULE
                  '+': combine selected and next army
                  '-': separate army into two units
                  '/': separate army into two equal units
END
                    Welcome to Conquer XVERSION

CONQUER is a multi player computer game designed to run under the UNIX
operating system.  In CONQUER,  each player is the leader of a nation,
composed of people (humans, orcs, elves, dwarves), resources, and land.
Rulers customize their nation at creation by chosing their race and by giving
their nation special powers (magic, combat factor, location, speed...)
and resources (civilians, troops, metal, gold...).  Play involves building,
moving, and controlling armies and navies, diplomacy with other players,
and adjusting economic activity, which is primarily geared to the production
of gold for your treasury.  Also, metals are needed to build ships & armies,
and food is needed to prevent revolts and keep people alive.

Command format:  conquer [-Ghs -nNAT -dDIR]
                    -G       highlight name in news (gaudy!)
                    -h       print this help text
                    -s       print out scores
                    -n NTN   run as nation NTN
                    -d DIR   run on data in directory DIR

The game administrator should read documentation on using the conqrun command.
END
                    CONQUER ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

      To facilitate the use of conquer, the environment variable
XCONQENV has been added to conquer to allow settings of default options
to conquer.  Just add a line to your .cshrc or .login file with the
following format:

setenv XCONQENV "G,nation=MyLand,datadir=this_game"

      If you then type just 'conquer' to enter conquer, it will be
equivalent to typing 'conquer -G -n MyLand -d this_game'.

      The data directory and nation settings through the environment
are just defaults and maybe overridden by actually entering a different
option using '-d' or '-n'.  [Note: to specify the default directory,
you may simply specify '-d ""'.]

      The XCONQENV environment variable combined with the use of shell
aliases should allow quick access for players in multiple campaigns.
END
                          CONQUER DEMI-GODS

      Since god is often a busy fellow, it is within his power to
assign worlds to his loyal followers.  When creating a world god simply
indicates a mortal who may administrate that world, and that player is
promoted to demi-god status.

      The demi-god may perform all of the godly functions for his world,
including updates and nation alterations.  He may even rebuild the current
world from the beginning, if god grants him that power.  The only definite
restrictions are that he may not create a completely new world or effect any
world, other than his own.  The demi-god for each world is indicated
in the campaign information display ('I').

      Perhaps god is looking for people to run his worlds.  Send mail
to XLOGIN and you may find out.
END
                       CONQUER CURSOR MOVEMENT

                               NORTH

                                (K)
                          y,7   k,8   u,9
                             \   |   /
                               \ | /
          WEST      (H) h,4 ---- 0 ---- l,6 (L)       EAST
                               / | \
                             /   |   \
                          b,1   j,2   n,3
                                (J)

                               SOUTH

               Figures in parenthesis indicate scrolling
           Note either numeric keypad OR vi keys can be used

                <cntrl>-L will redraw the screen
END
                        CONQUER COMMANDS -- lower case commands

'a': army report:    Gives an army's details & permits changing army status,
                      merging armies, splitting armies, and disbanding armies
'c': administration: Report on nation status and then change name, password,
                      add to combat bonus, or (if god) destroy a nation.
'd': change display: Change display mode.  metal/jewel screens #'s are sector
                      value.  Pop. is by 100's in Arabic, and 1000's in Roman.
'f': fleet report:   Report on the status of your fleets.
'g': group report:   As army report, but only show armies in current sector.
'm': move unit:      Move selected unit. The unit will stop when it runs out
                     of move points or runs into an army larger than it.
'o': pick previous:  Allow you to select the next/previous army or navy in the
'p': pick next:       sector.  Other commands will operate on that unit.
'r': redesignate:    You can change habitable sectors you own to other
                      designations.  Towns require 500+ people & Capitols
                      require Towns.  God can redesignate anything.
's': score:          Print out a screen showing the scores
't': transport:      Load/unload soldiers or civilians onto selected fleet.
'w': wizardry:       Cast spells if you have the ability
'?': help screen:    Display this help text
END
                        CONQUER COMMANDS -- upper case commands pg. 1.

'B': budget:       ESTIMATE your nations budget statistics
'C': construct:    If you have cash, you can build fortifications and
                    ships in your Towns.  Ships can only be built in Towns
                    located on the water.
'D': draft:        You may draft a 1/4 of the starting sector population if it
                    was a Town/City/Cap and if you have the gold & metal. You
                    must draft soldiers in multiples of 10 men.
'F': next fleet:   Move cursor to your next fleet.
'G': next army:    Move cursor to your next army.
'I': information:  Display a screen containing general conquer statistics.
'M': magic:        Prints your magic powers & offers you the option to
                    purchase more (cost increase with each power).  Monster
                    Power gives you the chance to take over NPC nations.
END
                        CONQUER COMMANDS -- upper case commands pg. 2.

'N': newspaper:   Briefs you on world happenings.  Note: News has 4 pages.
'P': production:  ESTIMATE your nations production statistics
'S': diplomacy:   Allow you to see and alter your diplomatic status.
'T': commerce:    Allow you to trade with other nations.
'Q': quit:        Save your move and quit the game.  Note there is no
                   means supported to quit without saving your moves.
'R': read mail:   Read mail messages
'W': write mail:  Write mail messages.  You can write to the administrator
                   and can post articles to the news board with this command.
'Z': move people: Civilians can move between two of your sectors at a cost
                   of 50 per civilian.  Civilians naturally move in the update.
END
                       A TYPICAL FIRST TURN

This section is offered to help beginning players understand the first
turns of the game.  The objective at this point is to take land and to
make enough farms that your people don't starve.  The first thing to do is
to look at sectors you can see (using the cursor keys).  You
are looking for sectors with high (4+) food/metal/jewel values.  You should
now assign soldiers to army groups (via. the Escape / G sequence). An army
group id is the same as a leader id.  Then, pick an army or army group with
the 'p'ick  command and 'm'ove it to a target sectors.  When you stop the
army, it should take the sector, and you should be able to see a little bit
more of the world.  Every army should try to take a different sector each
of the first few turns.  'r'edesignate sectors to farms (f),mines (m), or
goldmines ($).  Now browse the other reports and forms to get a feel of the
game.  When done, quit via the 'q'uit command.  After the update,
civilians will have moved into your sectors, and will start producing.
Watch that food consumption early on!!!
END
                            FINAL COMMENTS

To my knowledge Conquer runs well on UNIX (SYS V or BSD 4.3) systems.  The
game treats turns like a hidden move wargame would...  you enter all your
moves into the program and conquer tells you what happens.  Like wargames, 
there is no turning back.  Every move you make will be saved when you quit.
If you goof up real bad, you need to go to the administrator, and have him
log in (as god) and fix whatever you did.  Of course, bribery will probably
work well in such a situation. ;-)

Have Fun

The Ed
END
DONE
